Add Graceful Recovery Baseline Test (#1111)
nginxinc/nginx-gateway-fabric: tests/graceful-recovery.md

> # Graceful recovery from restarts

Reviewer: Could we make a separate directory for this test? This will play nicely with the rest of the tests we're adding.

## Description
When one of the containers in the NGF Pod fails, the Gateway API configuration
should be reapplied to the new container so that when either container

> fails, NGF should be able to recover without any assistance.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
fails, NGF should be able to recover without any user intervention.
```

## Goal
Ensure that NGF can recover gracefully from container failures without any intervention.

## Cluster Details

- GKE 1.27.3-gke.100
- us-central1-c
- Machine type of node is e2-medium
- 3 nodes

## Setup

1. Setup GKE Cluster.
2. Clone the repo and change into the nginx-gateway-fabric directory.
3. Check out the latest tag (unless you are installing the edge version from the main branch).
4. Go into `deploy/manifests/nginx-gateway.yaml` and change `runAsNonRoot` from `true` to `false`.

> 5. Follow the [installation instructions](https://github.com/nginxinc/nginx-gateway-fabric/blob/main/docs/installation.md)

Reviewer 2: Can you include how you exposed NGF here?

to deploy NGINX Gateway Fabric.

> 6. In a separate terminal track NGF logs by running `kubectl -n nginx-gateway logs -f deploy/nginx-gateway`

Reviewer 2: I recommend using code block (three backticks) for any command that will be copy-pasted since GitHub will add a copy button to the snippet.

7. In a separate terminal track nginx container logs by running
`kubectl -n nginx-gateway logs -f <NGF_POD> -c nginx`

> 8. Exec into the nginx container inside of the NGF pod by running

Reviewer 2: I think it's sufficient to verify the NGINX config after deploying the example. No need to verify it before deploying the example.

`kubectl exec -it -n nginx-gateway <NGF_POD> --container nginx -- bin/sh`
9. Inside the nginx container, navigate to `/etc/nginx/conf.d` and ensure that
`http.conf` and `config-version.conf` look correct.
10. In a different terminal, deploy the
[https-termination example](https://github.com/nginxinc/nginx-gateway-fabric/tree/main/examples/https-termination).
11. Inside the nginx container, check `http.conf` and `config-version.config` to see
if the configuration and version were correctly updated.
12. Send traffic through the example application and ensure it is working correctly.

> ## Testing when nginx-gateway container restarts

Reviewer 2: nit: structure tip:

```
## Tests
### Restart nginx-gateway container
### Restart nginx container
### Restart Node with draining
### Restart Node without draining
```

1. Ensure NGF and nginx container logs are set up and traffic flows through the example application correctly.
2. Insert ephemeral container in NGF Pod and kill the nginx-gateway process.
    1. `kubectl debug -it -n nginx-gateway <NGF_POD> --image=busybox:1.28 --target=nginx-gateway`
    2. run `ps -A`

>     3. run `kill <nginx-gateway_PID>` (Command should start with `/usr/bin/gateway`)

Reviewer: by default, kill sends SIGTERM, which is for normal (graceful) termination. We need to kill the process abruptly. For that, we need use SIGKILL, like `kill -s SIGKILL`

Author: Do you think it would be worth having a test which checks if normal (graceful) termination works alongside SIGKILL? Do you think the test is going to miss anything important by testing through SIGKILL?

Reviewer: The most important is SIGKILL, because it simulates an abprupt termination of either container.

SIGTERM is important in the context of termination, when the container will not be restarted, but deleted. Graceful termination will be tested here, because it is important for zero downtime upgrades https://github.com/nginxinc/nginx-gateway-fabric/issues/950 --  the terminating pod will need to stop accepting any new connections and finish serving any pending requests before it exits.

3. Check for errors in the NGF and nginx-container logs.
4. When the nginx-gateway container is back up, ensure traffic flows through the example application correctly.
5. Open up the NGF and nginx container logs and check for errors.
6. Inside the nginx container, check that `http.conf` was not changed and `config-version.conf` had its version set to `2`.
7. Send traffic through the example application and ensure it is working correctly.

> 8. Check that NGF can still update statuses of resources.

Reviewer: this better reflects the contents, because the step is not only about statuses
```suggestion
Check that NGF can still process changes of resources.
```

>    1. Delete the HTTPRoute resources by running `kubectl delete -f cafe-routes.yaml` in `/examples/https-termination`

Reviewer 2: I'd write commands assuming the reader is working from the current directory. 

```
kubectl delete -f ../examples/cafe-routes.yaml
```

Author: Is the current directory the base directory like`nginx-kubernetes-gateway`? Or is it like wherever I had led them in the testing guide?

If its the base/home directory would I do something like this?
`kubectl delete -f examples/https-termination/cafe-routes.yaml`?

Reviewer 2: > Is the current directory the base directory likenginx-kubernetes-gateway? Or is it like wherever I had led them in the testing guide?

I assume they will be working from the directory this file lives in, not the root directory of the repo. That's what we assume in our example READMES: https://github.com/nginxinc/nginx-gateway-fabric/tree/main/examples/cafe-example.

   2. Inside the terminal which is inside the nginx container, check that `http.conf` and
   `config-version.conf` were correctly updated.
   3. Send traffic through the example application using the updated resources and ensure traffic does not flow.
   4. Apply the HTTPRoute resources by running `kubectl apply -f cafe-routes.yaml` in `/examples/https-termination`
   5. Inside the terminal which is inside the nginx container, check that `http.conf` and
   `config-version.conf` were correctly updated.
   6. Send traffic through the example application using the updated resources and ensure traffic flows correctly.

## Testing when nginx container restarts

1. Ensure NGF and nginx container logs are set up and traffic flows through the example application correctly.

> 2. Insert ephemeral container in NGF Pod and kill the nginx-master process.

Reviewer 2: Do you need an ephemeral container for this test case or can you just exec into the nginx container and kill the master process?

Author: I just double checked and yes I can kill the master process from the nginx container. Do you think that would be simpler?

Reviewer 2: Yeah, I think that would be simpler.

   1. If there isn't already an ephemeral container inserted, run:
   `kubectl debug -it -n nginx-gateway <NGF_POD> --image=busybox:1.28 --target=nginx-gateway`
   2. run `ps -A`

>    3. run `kill <nginx-master_PID>` (Command should start with `nginx: master process`)

Reviewer: similarly, we need to use SIGKILL

3. When nginx container is back up, ensure traffic flows through the example application correctly.
4. Open up the nginx-container logs and check for errors.

> 5. Exec back into the nginx container and check that `http.conf` and `config-version.conf` were not changed.

Reviewer: It will benefit if here we to repeat the steps similar to `8. Check that NGF can still update statuses of resources.` - to make sure NGF can reload NGINX in the new NGINX container.

## Testing when the NGF Pod restarts through node shutdown with cleaning up of resources

1. Switch over to a one-node Kind cluster. Can run `make create-kind-cluster` from main directory.
2. Run steps 4-12 of the Setup section above using [this guide]
(https://github.com/nginxinc/nginx-gateway-fabric/blob/main/docs/running-on-kind.md) for running on Kind.
3. Ensure NGF and nginx container logs are set up and traffic flows through the example application correctly.
4. Drain the node of its resources by running `kubectl drain kind-control-plane --ignore-daemonsets --delete-local-data`
5. Delete the node by running `kubectl delete node kind-control-plane`
6. Restart the docker container by running `docker restart kind-control-plane`
7. Open up both NGF and nginx-container logs and check for errors.
8. Exec back into the nginx container and check that `http.conf` and `config-version.conf` were not changed.
9. Send traffic through the example application and ensure it is working correctly.

> 10. Check that NGF can still update statuses of resources.

Reviewer: same comment as for step 8 of Testing when nginx-gateway container restarts
